TwoPaneLayout/README.md, before:

# TwoPaneLayout - Surface Duo Compose SDK

**TwoPaneLayout** is a Jetpack Compose component that helps you create UI for dual-screen, foldable, and large-screen devices. TwoPaneLayout provides a two-pane layout for use at the top level of a UI. The component will place two panes side-by-side when the app is spanned on dual-screen, foldable and large-screen devices, otherwise only one pane will be shown. These panes can be horizontal or vertical, depending on the orientation of the device and the selected `paneMode`. [TwoPaneLayoutNav](#twopanelayoutnav) is a new version of TwoPaneLayout that can be used for complex navigation scenarios, and it follows the same pane logic as the original TwoPaneLayout.

When the app is spanned across a separating vertical hinge or fold, or when the width is larger than height of the screen on a large-screen device, pane 1 will be placed on the left, while pane 2 will be on the right. If the device rotates, the app is spanned across a separating horizontal hinge or fold, or the width is smaller than the height of screen on large-screen device, pane 1 will be placed on the top and pane 2 will be on the bottom.

## Add to your project

1. Make sure you have `mavenCentral()` repository in your top level **build.gradle** file:

    ```gradle
    allprojects {
        repositories {
            google()
            mavenCentral()
         }
    }
    ```

2. Add dependencies to the module-level **build.gradle** file (current version may be different from what's shown here).

    ```gradle
    implementation "com.microsoft.device.dualscreen:twopanelayout:1.0.1-alpha03"
    ```

3. Also ensure the compileSdkVersion and targetSdkVersion are set to API 31 or newer in the module-level **build.gradle** file.

    ```gradle
    android { 
        compileSdkVersion 32
        
        defaultConfig { 
            targetSdkVersion 32
        } 
        ... 
    }
    ```

4. Build layout with **TwoPaneLayout** or **TwoPaneLayoutNav**. Please refer to the [TwoPaneLayout sample](https://github.com/microsoft/surface-duo-compose-sdk/tree/main/TwoPaneLayout/sample) and [TwoPaneLayoutNav sample](https://github.com/microsoft/surface-duo-compose-sdk/tree/main/TwoPaneLayout/nav_sample) for more details.

## API reference

The sections below describe how to use and customize TwoPaneLayout for different scenarios. Please refer to the [TwoPaneLayout documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dual-screen/android/jetpack/compose/two-pane-layout) for more details.

To learn more about common use cases for two-pane layouts, please check out the [dual-screen user interface patterns](https://docs.microsoft.com/dual-screen/introduction#dual-screen-app-patterns).

### TwoPaneLayout

The main TwoPaneLayout constructors both accept parameters for a modifier, [pane mode](#pane-mode), and content to show in pane 1 and pane 2. The second constructor also accepts a `NavHostController` parameter, which is useful for accessing navigation information in your app.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayout(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    pane1: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit,
    pane2: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit
)

@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayout(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    navController: NavHostController,
    pane1: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit,
    pane2: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit
)
```

The content shown in each pane can access methods from the `TwoPaneScope` interface:

```kotlin
interface TwoPaneScope {

    fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier

    fun navigateToPane1()

    fun navigateToPane2()

    val currentSinglePaneDestination: String

    val isSinglePane: Boolean
}
```

The [weight modifier](#weight-modifier) is described in more detail below.

When writing UI tests for composables that use `TwoPaneScope`, you can use the `TwoPaneScopeTest` class. It provides empty implementations of `TwoPaneScope` methods, and you can set the values of `currentSinglePaneDestination` and `isSinglePane` in the class constructor before running your tests.

```kotlin
class TwoPaneScopeTest(
    currentSinglePaneDestination: String = "",
    isSinglePane: Boolean = true
) : TwoPaneScope
```

### Pane mode

The pane mode affects when two panes are shown for TwoPaneLayout. By default, whenever there is a separating fold or a large screen, two panes will be shown, but you can choose to show only one pane in these cases by changing the pane mode.

```kotlin
enum class TwoPaneMode {
    TwoPane,
    HorizontalSingle,
    VerticalSingle
}
```

There are three pane modes available for TwoPaneLayout:

- `TwoPane` - default mode, always shows two panes regardless of the orientation
- `HorizontalSingle` - shows one big pane when in the horizontal orientation (combines top/bottom panes)

    <img src="screenshots/single-horizontal.png" width=500 alt="HorizontalSingle pane mode on a dual-screen device">

- `VerticalSingle` - shows one big pane when in the vertical orientation (combines left/right panes)

    <img src="screenshots/single-vertical.png" width=500 alt="VerticalSingle pane mode on a foldable device">

### Weight modifier

TwoPaneLayout is able to assign children widths or heights according to their weights provided using the `TwoPaneScope.weight` and `TwoPaneNavScope.weight` modifiers. This only affects the layout for large screen and foldable devices, but for single-screen devices, there will still only be one pane visible, regardless of the weight.

```kotlin
fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier
```

For large screens:

- No weight &rarr; two panes displayed equally
- Weight &rarr; layout split up proportionally according to the weight

    <img src="screenshots/tablet.png" width=650 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a tablet/large screen device, weight modifiers of 0.3 and 0.7 provided so panes are divided in a 3:7 ratio">

For foldables:

- Separating fold &rarr; layout split up according to fold boundaries (with or without weight)

    <img src="screenshots/surfaceduo.png" width=500 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a dual-screen device (Surface Duo), no weight modifier provided so panes are divided by fold">
    <img src="screenshots/foldable.png" width=500 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a foldable device, no weight modifier provided so panes are divided by fold">

- Non-separating fold &rarr; device treated as a large screen or single-screen depending on its size

## TwoPaneLayoutNav

The TwoPaneLayoutNav constructor can be used for more complicated navigation scenarios. It accepts parameters for a modifier, [pane mode](#pane-mode), `NavHostController`, content for multiple app destinations, and start destinations.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayoutNav(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    navController: NavHostController,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    destinations: Array<Destination>,
    singlePaneStartDestination: String,
    pane1StartDestination: String,
    pane2StartDestination: String
) 
```

Like destinations in a `NavHost`, each destination in TwoPaneLayoutNav has a route and composable content.

```kotlin
data class Destination(val route: String, val content: @Composable TwoPaneNavScope.() -> Unit)
```

The content shown in each destination can access methods from the `TwoPaneNavScope` interface:

```kotlin
interface TwoPaneNavScope {

    fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier

    fun NavHostController.navigateTo(
        route: String,
        screen: Screen,
        navOptions: NavOptionsBuilder.() -> Unit = { },
    )

    val currentSinglePaneDestination: String

    val currentPane1Destination: String

    val currentPane2Destination: String

    val isSinglePane: Boolean
}
```

The `navigateTo` method is an enhanced version of the `navigate` method from `NavHostController` that works when one or two panes are shown. The `screen` parameter determines which pane, or screen, a destination should be shown in when in two pane mode: `Screen.Pane1` or `Screen.Pane2`.

```kotlin
sealed class Screen(val route: String) {

    object Pane1 : Screen("pane1")

    object Pane2 : Screen("pane2")
}
```

When writing UI tests for composables that use `TwoPaneNavScope`, you can use the `TwoPaneScopeNavTest` class. It provides empty implementations of `TwoPaneNavScope` methods, and you can set the values of `currentSinglePaneDestination`, `currentPane1Destination`, `currentPane2Destination`, and `isSinglePane` in the class constructor before running your tests.

```kotlin
class TwoPaneNavScopeTest(
    currentSinglePaneDestination: String = "",
    currentPane1Destination: String = "",
    currentPane2Destination: String = "",
    isSinglePane: Boolean = true
) : TwoPaneNavScope
```

The animation below shows an example of how to use TwoPaneLayoutNav to create custom navigation flows. The layout was created with four app destinations, where destination 1 was passed in as the `singlePaneStartDestination` and `pane1StartDestination` and destination two was passed in as the `pane2StartDestination`. The navigation flow, which works in both single and two pane modes, uses `navigateTo` to go from destination 1-4 in panes 1, 2, 2, and 1 respectively.

![Example usage of the TwoPaneLayout nav in the nav sample](screenshots/twopanelayoutnav.gif)

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation.

MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Update dependencies and add SinglePane mode to TwoPaneLayout (#49)
* Update dependencies in ComposeTesting and DragAndDrop libraries (#48)

* Update DragAndDrop dependencies

* Update ComposeTesting dependencies

* Update recent releases in readme

* Upgrade dependencies

* Add new isSinglePane value for TwoPaneMode

* Update readmes

* Update TwoPaneMode descriptions

* Add pane mode combo table

TwoPaneLayout/README.md, after:

# TwoPaneLayout - Surface Duo Compose SDK

**TwoPaneLayout** is a Jetpack Compose component that helps you create UI for dual-screen, foldable, and large-screen devices. TwoPaneLayout provides a two-pane layout for use at the top level of a UI. The component will place two panes side-by-side when the app is spanned on dual-screen, foldable and large-screen devices, otherwise only one pane will be shown. These panes can be horizontal or vertical, depending on the orientation of the device and the selected `paneMode`. [TwoPaneLayoutNav](#twopanelayoutnav) is a new version of TwoPaneLayout that can be used for complex navigation scenarios, and it follows the same pane logic as the original TwoPaneLayout.

When the app is spanned across a separating vertical hinge or fold, or when the width is larger than height of the screen on a large-screen device, pane 1 will be placed on the left, while pane 2 will be on the right. If the device rotates, the app is spanned across a separating horizontal hinge or fold, or the width is smaller than the height of screen on large-screen device, pane 1 will be placed on the top and pane 2 will be on the bottom.

## Add to your project

1. Make sure you have `mavenCentral()` repository in your top level **build.gradle** file:

    ```gradle
    allprojects {
        repositories {
            google()
            mavenCentral()
         }
    }
    ```

2. Add dependencies to the module-level **build.gradle** file (current version may be different from what's shown here).

    ```gradle
    implementation "com.microsoft.device.dualscreen:twopanelayout:1.0.1-alpha04"
    ```

3. Also ensure the compileSdkVersion is set to API 33 and targetSdkVersion is set to API 32 or newer in the module-level **build.gradle** file.

    ```gradle
    android { 
        compileSdkVersion 33
        
        defaultConfig { 
            targetSdkVersion 32
        } 
        ... 
    }
    ```

4. Build layout with **TwoPaneLayout** or **TwoPaneLayoutNav**. Please refer to the [TwoPaneLayout sample](https://github.com/microsoft/surface-duo-compose-sdk/tree/main/TwoPaneLayout/sample) and [TwoPaneLayoutNav sample](https://github.com/microsoft/surface-duo-compose-sdk/tree/main/TwoPaneLayout/nav_sample) for more details.

## API reference

The sections below describe how to use and customize TwoPaneLayout for different scenarios. Please refer to the [TwoPaneLayout documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dual-screen/android/jetpack/compose/two-pane-layout) for more details.

To learn more about common use cases for two-pane layouts, please check out the [dual-screen user interface patterns](https://docs.microsoft.com/dual-screen/introduction#dual-screen-app-patterns).

### TwoPaneLayout

The main TwoPaneLayout constructors both accept parameters for a modifier, [pane mode](#pane-mode), and content to show in pane 1 and pane 2. The second constructor also accepts a `NavHostController` parameter, which is useful for accessing navigation information in your app.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayout(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    pane1: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit,
    pane2: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit
)

@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayout(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    navController: NavHostController,
    pane1: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit,
    pane2: @Composable TwoPaneScope.() -> Unit
)
```

The content shown in each pane can access methods from the `TwoPaneScope` interface:

```kotlin
interface TwoPaneScope {

    fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier

    fun navigateToPane1()

    fun navigateToPane2()

    val currentSinglePaneDestination: String

    val isSinglePane: Boolean
}
```

The [weight modifier](#weight-modifier) is described in more detail below.

When writing UI tests for composables that use `TwoPaneScope`, you can use the `TwoPaneScopeTest` class. It provides empty implementations of `TwoPaneScope` methods, and you can set the values of `currentSinglePaneDestination` and `isSinglePane` in the class constructor before running your tests.

```kotlin
class TwoPaneScopeTest(
    currentSinglePaneDestination: String = "",
    isSinglePane: Boolean = true
) : TwoPaneScope
```

### Pane mode

The pane mode affects when two panes are shown for TwoPaneLayout. By default, whenever there is a **separating fold** or a **large window**, two panes will be shown, but you can choose to show only one pane in these cases by changing the pane mode.

A **separating fold** means there's a [FoldingFeature](https://developer.android.com/reference/kotlin/androidx/window/layout/FoldingFeature) present that returns true for the [isSeparating](https://developer.android.com/reference/kotlin/androidx/window/layout/FoldingFeature#isSeparating()) property.

A **large window** is one with a width [WindowSizeClass](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/large-screens/support-different-screen-sizes#window_size_classes) of `EXPANDED` and a height size classs of at least `MEDIUM`.

```kotlin
enum class TwoPaneMode {
    TwoPane,
    HorizontalSingle,
    VerticalSingle,
    SinglePane
}
```

There are four pane modes available for TwoPaneLayout:

- `TwoPane` - default mode, always shows two panes when there is a **separating fold** or **large window**, regardless of the orientation
- `HorizontalSingle` - shows one big pane when there is a **horizontal separating fold** or a **portrait large window** (combines top/bottom panes)

    <img src="screenshots/single-horizontal.png" width=500 alt="HorizontalSingle pane mode on a dual-screen device">

- `VerticalSingle` - shows one big pane when there is a **vertical separating fold** or a **landscape large window** (combines left/right panes)

    <img src="screenshots/single-vertical.png" width=500 alt="VerticalSingle pane mode on a foldable device">

- `SinglePane` - always shows one pane, regardless of any window features and the orientation

This table explains when one 🟩 or two 🟦🟦 panes will be shown for different pane modes and device configurations:

| Pane mode | Small window without separating fold | Portrait large window / horizontal separating fold | Landscape large window / vertical separating fold |
|---|---|---|---|
| `TwoPane` | 🟩 | 🟦🟦 | 🟦🟦 |
| `HorizontalSingle` | 🟩 | 🟩 | 🟦🟦 |
| `VerticalSingle` | 🟩 | 🟦🟦 | 🟩 |
| `SinglePane` | 🟩 | 🟩 | 🟩 |

### Weight modifier

TwoPaneLayout is able to assign children widths or heights according to their weights provided using the `TwoPaneScope.weight` and `TwoPaneNavScope.weight` modifiers. This only affects the layout for large screen and foldable devices, but for single-screen devices, there will still only be one pane visible, regardless of the weight.

```kotlin
fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier
```

For large screens:

- No weight &rarr; two panes displayed equally
- Weight &rarr; layout split up proportionally according to the weight

    <img src="screenshots/tablet.png" width=650 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a tablet/large screen device, weight modifiers of 0.3 and 0.7 provided so panes are divided in a 3:7 ratio">

For foldables:

- Separating fold &rarr; layout split up according to fold boundaries (with or without weight)

    <img src="screenshots/surfaceduo.png" width=500 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a dual-screen device (Surface Duo), no weight modifier provided so panes are divided by fold">
    <img src="screenshots/foldable.png" width=500 alt="TwoPaneLayout on a foldable device, no weight modifier provided so panes are divided by fold">

- Non-separating fold &rarr; device treated as a large screen or single-screen depending on its size

## TwoPaneLayoutNav

The TwoPaneLayoutNav constructor can be used for more complicated navigation scenarios. It accepts parameters for a modifier, [pane mode](#pane-mode), `NavHostController`, content for multiple app destinations, and start destinations.

```kotlin
@Composable
fun TwoPaneLayoutNav(
    modifier: Modifier = Modifier,
    navController: NavHostController,
    paneMode: TwoPaneMode = TwoPaneMode.TwoPane,
    destinations: Array<Destination>,
    singlePaneStartDestination: String,
    pane1StartDestination: String,
    pane2StartDestination: String
) 
```

Like destinations in a `NavHost`, each destination in TwoPaneLayoutNav has a route and composable content.

```kotlin
data class Destination(val route: String, val content: @Composable TwoPaneNavScope.() -> Unit)
```

The content shown in each destination can access methods from the `TwoPaneNavScope` interface:

```kotlin
interface TwoPaneNavScope {

    fun Modifier.weight(weight: Float): Modifier

    fun NavHostController.navigateTo(
        route: String,
        screen: Screen,
        navOptions: NavOptionsBuilder.() -> Unit = { },
    )

    val currentSinglePaneDestination: String

    val currentPane1Destination: String

    val currentPane2Destination: String

    val isSinglePane: Boolean
}
```

The `navigateTo` method is an enhanced version of the `navigate` method from `NavHostController` that works when one or two panes are shown. The `screen` parameter determines which pane, or screen, a destination should be shown in when in two pane mode: `Screen.Pane1` or `Screen.Pane2`.

```kotlin
sealed class Screen(val route: String) {

    object Pane1 : Screen("pane1")

    object Pane2 : Screen("pane2")
}
```

When writing UI tests for composables that use `TwoPaneNavScope`, you can use the `TwoPaneScopeNavTest` class. It provides empty implementations of `TwoPaneNavScope` methods, and you can set the values of `currentSinglePaneDestination`, `currentPane1Destination`, `currentPane2Destination`, and `isSinglePane` in the class constructor before running your tests.

```kotlin
class TwoPaneNavScopeTest(
    currentSinglePaneDestination: String = "",
    currentPane1Destination: String = "",
    currentPane2Destination: String = "",
    isSinglePane: Boolean = true
) : TwoPaneNavScope
```

The animation below shows an example of how to use TwoPaneLayoutNav to create custom navigation flows. The layout was created with four app destinations, where destination 1 was passed in as the `singlePaneStartDestination` and `pane1StartDestination` and destination two was passed in as the `pane2StartDestination`. The navigation flow, which works in both single and two pane modes, uses `navigateTo` to go from destination 1-4 in panes 1, 2, 2, and 1 respectively.

![Example usage of the TwoPaneLayout nav in the nav sample](screenshots/twopanelayoutnav.gif)

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation.

MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
